through nafeez Mossadegh ahmed study of
the relationship between the west and
radical muslim groups like the
Mujahideen in Afghanistan the armed
Islamic group in Algeria and the Kosovo
Liberation Army in Serbia he spoke about
it recently at American University in
Washington DC for about an hour and a
half
[Applause]
thank you very much for the warm welcome
I also want to extend our heartfelt
gratitude to c-span and c-span book TV
for being here in covering this event
we're bringing this event to you from
American University where we are in
Washington DC we're calling it beyond
Downing Street it's a town hall meeting
featuring the author nafisa Achmed who
is here with us from London England
he'll be talking about his new book
which just been released called the war
on truth 9/11 disinformation and the
anatomy of terrorism today is the third
anniversary of the Downing Street memo
the memo which documents the fact that
this administration had a plan to take
us to war and that they fixed the
intelligence around the policy to go to
war in Iraq the after Street down excuse
me the after Downing Street coalition is
responsible for organizing over 350 town
hall meetings across the country today
in commemoration of the third
anniversary of the Downing Street memo
yesterday was the one-year anniversary
of the release of the 9/11 report and
yesterday on Capitol Hill for the first
time the 9/11 report was scrutinized by
panelists in an all-day briefing held by
representative Cynthia McKinney it was
annexed ORAC
we had family members such as Lori van
Owen and Mindy Kleinberg come forward
and talk about their appraisal of that
report that very flawed report we had
authors scholars researchers also
provide briefings
to members of Congress or their staff
and the press and in the immediate
independent media who were there for the
event
the town hall meeting here featuring the
feasts is going to bridge the gap
connect the dots between 9/11 and the
Iraq war we're going to open the lens a
little bit wider here to examine the
pretext that led to the Afghan war to
the Iraq war and see the pattern of lies
and deceptions that emanate from this
administration and from this government
we have some panelists that will be
introduced later on after 40 minute
presentation by nafisa met so now I'll
introduce nafeez nafeez muss deck ahmed
is executive director of the institute
for policy research and development in
Brighton England and is the best-selling
author of the war on freedom how and why
America was attacked September 11 2001
this book won him the Naples prize which
is Italy's most prestigious literary
award his work has been praised by the
eminent scholar and historian gore Vidal
his latest book previous to the current
one he'll be discussing today is behind
the war on terror Western secret
strategy and the struggle for Iraq the
feast is a doctoral candidate to the
University of Sussex so I present you
the feasts Othman
thank you it's an honor to be here to be
talking in front of you and to be
talking about such an important issue
the connection between 9/11 deception
and the wars that are going on today in
our name so I'll be talking about the
research that I've done in my new book
the warm truth and trying to explain to
you some of the very important issues
that I've come across that really call
into question the conventional story of
what happened on 9/11 and in turn of
course call into question this entire
war on terror that is now being
conducted in our name I'll begin with a
statement that I found I was doing
research into the background of 9/11 and
terrorism and I found a book by a
well-known Swiss TV journalist by the
name of Richard lariviere called dollars
for terror
one thing struck me coming is a very
good book but one statement struck me he
interviewed a CIA analyst anonymously
who said to him regarding the whole
policy towards al-qaeda and Islam he
said quote the policy of guiding the
evolution of Islam and of helping them
against our adversaries worked
marvelously well in Afghanistan against
the Red Army the same doctrines can
still be used to destabilize what
remains of Russian power and especially
to counter the Chinese influence in
Central Asia now when I read this I was
quite shocked because really what it
seemed to be saying was that there was
there was some kind of strategic
thinking when we got involved with the
Mujahideen in Afghanistan to repel the
Soviet Union there was some kind of
thinking that maybe we could actually
use these guys in a wider context even
if it wasn't well thought out there was
something that struck me is very very
significant then I thought how do we
find out whether this is true so what I
set out to do I said what's up what are
these key readings I can look out to see
whether this is true you know Russian
power and Chinese power so we can look
at Eastern Europe the Balkans
Center Asia and Asia that's what I did
and I discovered to my great surprise
that there was a lot of disturbing
evidence that the United States and not
just the United States Britain and
various Western European powers as well
had been to this day connecting
themselves in some way or other with the
Mujahideen with al-qaida in various
different regions for various different
interests
I looked for al-qaeda in the Balkans in
North Africa in the Asia Pacific in the
Caucasus and in the Middle East and I
would just want to try and give you a
very brief breakdown of some of the kind
of interesting pieces of evidence I
found for this connection the most
prominent one I think to my mind is the
Balkans we are told that we disconnected
ourselves from the Mujahideen completely
when the Soviet Union collapsed this is
just not true it's well-documented now
in the first Bosnian conflict between
1992 and 94 the Pentagon created an air
funnel they flew in Mujahideen connected
to Osama bin Laden and al-qaeda for many
different parts of the world Central
Asia the Middle East and flew them in
they landed in Bosnia in various places
and they used them to try and manipulate
the Bosnian conflict in a certain
direction whatever one may think of our
motive for getting involved in the
Bosnian conflict whether it was
humanitarian or not is besides the point
in doing so we connected ourselves with
people who are connected to terrorism
and subsequently as a result of that
Bosnia has been described as a safe
haven for terrorists in Europe a
launching pad for European terrorist
operations just to give you an idea of
the documentation that is available this
was confirmed this the existence of this
lays on between the United States and
Britain and the Mujahideen one of the
most prominent sources was the Dutch
report into what happened at zebra Nisha
the official inquiry that happened a few
years ago and that was based on Dutch
intelligence sources but it's been
confirmed by many other sources there
are many reports in in British
newspapers the London Spectator for
example use of bird and ski the
congressional director the director of
the Congressional Task Force on
terrorism has talked about this many
other many other people have talked
about it and we didn't just stop then in
the Kosovo conflict once again we
connected ourselves with the KLA now the
KLA it was known in 1998 the State
Department has listed the KLA as a
terrorist group and I have an improper
here from Ralph mooch who was assistant
director of interposed criminal
intelligence Directorate and he
testified before Congress in December
2000 though the KLA is suspected to be a
terrorist organization it was financing
its operations with money from the
international heroin trade and loans
from Islamic countries and individuals
among them besought Osama bin Laden he
also confirmed that at least one elite
KLA unit during the Kosovo conflict was
arranged by Osama bin Laden and was
headed by one of his top military
commanders there are many other reports
to this effect than the public record
including sources from in Bosnia itself
our bein in intelligence for example has
confirmed that there is a huge presence
of Mujahideen in the region connected to
the KLA which is now of course become
the NLA and is involved in the conflict
in Macedonia
and what did we do with the KLA before
the war in Kosovo as we know as many
reports confirm we connected ourselves
with the Calais quite directly we were
training them we had training camps we
provided manuals who provided a certain
degree of military assistance and
unfortunately we have good reason to
believe that these people were often
Mujahideen there was interpenetration of
people operatives between al-qaeda and
the KLA there was interpenetration of
finances interpenetration of military
assistance and this had a direct impact
on our national security this
involvement in the Balkans I will quote
again use of BER Dansky who talked about
he says the role of the Albanian mafia
which is tightly connected to the KLA is
laundering money providing technology
safe houses and other support to
terrorists within this country this
isn't to say that the Albanians
themselves would carry out the actual
terrorist operations but there are
sleeper agents within these Albanian
networks and they can rely upon those
networks to provide them with support a
serious investigation of the Albanian
mob in this country isn't going to
happen because they're our boys they're
protected in other words the terrorists
are protected now one of the things I'd
also did in relation to that was to try
and draw connections between before
before going on to the other regions I
tried to draw connections between these
kind of lions and terrorist attacks so I
looked at the 1993 World Trade Center
bombing and I also looked at the 1998 US
embassy bombings and again I found
disturbing reason to believe that this
kind of connection had a direct impact
in undermining our ability or
willingness to deal with these
terrorists who are quite directly
involved with operations on US soil just
to give you an idea the mastermind of
the first World Trade Center bombing in
1993 Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman kind of
commonly known as the blind Sheikh
this guy was basically obviously he was
and what he was involved deeply in the
1993 World Trade Center bombing he was
the guy who headed the the main al-qaeda
cell in the United States that carried
this out what I discovered was that the
blind Sheikh was also deeply involved in
recruiting Mujahideen not just during
the war in Afghanistan but also for the
Bosnian conflict his refugees al-kifah
refugee center which was based in New
York Brooklyn was originally in with
prior to the 1990s was was funneling
finances and recruiting people to go and
fight with the CIA in the wards in the
war in Afghanistan to repel Soviet
occupation occupation many reports now
confirm that in 1993 it switched its
operations to Bosnia also another
organization connected to the blind
shape called the third-world relief
agency according to many reports
including a report by the the Senate
Republican party committee I believe
documented that this organization
connected to the blind Sheikh was also
involved in funneling money to the
Mujahideen in Bosnia and also recruiting
more further Mujahideen to go in get
involved in that conflict so there was a
very direct connection here so what was
the response to the blind Sheikh I mean
was there kind of was or did they know
about his terrorist activities in
relation to the World Trade Center
bombing well we know for a fact that the
FBI had a great deal of information and
what was being planned
they had number of informants who had
infiltrated the cell that the blank
Sheikh headed excuse me
one of these informants his name was
Ahmad Ahmad Ali Saleh Salim I believe
and this guy was working for the FBI as
an informant and he was constantly wired
the FBI was able to listen to everything
that was going on within these cells and
this guy also kept very important
records he was recording of his own
accord without the FBI even knowing many
of these conversations he was passing
information to the FBI and subsequently
in the in the aftermath of those of
those bombings when they when we found
the these recordings that he had made
and transcripts were made of these
recordings and they were filed in the
court and so on and so forth what we
discovered was that he was actually
integrally involved in the planning for
the World Trade Center bombing he was
suggesting ways of of carrying out the
attacks he was providing suggestions as
to a safe houses warehouses he even had
a conversation with an FBI supervisor
where he complains that look FBI was the
work was involved in constructing the
bomb and we messed up and what are we
going to do about this and subsequently
we have also discovered the New York
Times reported there was it's well known
on one of the important conversations he
also had which indicates the extent of
the provide precise advanced warning of
that seems have been available to
authorities he complained that we had a
plan the FBI had hatched a plan to
thwart the bombing and the plan was this
have the bombs set up inside the World
Trade Center replaced the bomb with a
fake phony powder that won't work and
when it doesn't go off then we can move
in and we can capture these guys now
what happened according to the New York
Times is that this was considered to be
a bit too kind of like unrealistic you
know it was no need to do this let's do
something else
so they scrapped that plan but nothing
was done to replace this plan and so the
bomb went off now the interesting thing
is I mean I don't know precisely why I'm
not going to offer a theory of this very
damning failure but what I can say is
that we know for a fact that the blind
Sheikh long after the Cold War up to at
least 1993 was protected when that when
the rabbi meir kahane the extremist
rabbi was shot and killed by a member of
them the blind sheiks cell and the FBI
wanted to investigate they were blocked
and The Village Voice The Village Voice
had a report where they quoted an FBI
supervisor saying that I'm very upset
because I'm not able to win we haven't
been able to investigate this guy it
seems like he's been protected by the
State Department by the I NS by a CIA
this he is he's one of our guys and
we're not allowed to look into this and
when they finally actually did
investigate they didn't the the
investigation was didn't go very far
what they did discover was boxes huge
boxes in his room and these were only
opened after the bombings occurred and
these these boxes contain detailed plans
for what was about to occur photographs
of the World Trade Center inflammatory
statements about attacking Americans in
attacking the West and so on and so
forth
details of the of the individuals were
members of the cell why wasn't this box
open before the bombings there was just
no interest so that pattern now is the
same pattern I would argue that occurred
on 9/11 and it occurred in the 1998 US
embassy bombings but before going into
that we'll have to go a bit more forward
in history in terms of the connections
that we had did we have connections at
the Indian Ocean for example during 1998
and during 90 9/11 that may have in some
way compromised our willingness to look
at these people yes we did to this day
we have connections to states which are
harboring al-qaeda I'll give you some
examples I mean North Africa isn't as a
favor for me because I'm personally
interested in the region I've researched
the before in a professional capacity
and I like talking about the example of
Algeria now in Syria is a state where
there is a huge conflict civil conflict
going on between a secular government
and a supposedly Islamic opposition this
Islamic opposition consists of a number
of groups some of them marginally the
jism at been politically orientated and
many of them are clearly terrorist
groups one of the most prominent is
called the GI a the armed Islamic group
and in this group we know for certain is
connected to al-qaeda there's been a
number of reports I mean the Center for
Defense Information in Washington DC has
a whole lot of information on this
excuse me it's very well known
unfortunately there is information to
believe that the same dia which is
connected to al-qaeda is also
simultaneously infiltrated and
penetrated by our Geryon secret services
this was revealed early loss early early
in in the 20th century in the 1990s and
throughout the 1990s in the British
press and the French press algerian
secret service services defectors came
out and they said that we have
information we have read secret
documents we have been involved in
operations which are basically hatched
by Audion military intelligence to
manipulate and penetrate the DIA why are
we doing this because we are fighting a
war and to to legitimize our policy the
militarization of our of our of our
domestic policy and state repression we
have to have this enemy we have to
escalate the conflict and how much do do
do to the United States and the West and
Britain know about this policy because
we are very friendly to our jira we have
very close financial ties to this regime
we are constantly giving financial aid
to the regime
very heavy investments there in terms of
oil and gas we are conducting numerous
coextensive military programs with the
regime which I could go into into detail
too but I won't do that here so how much
do we know well there were foreign
office documents that were revealed a
few years ago in a court trial in the UK
about an Algerian guy who was supposed
to be a terrorist now 18 months late the
Foreign Office finally produced
documents and they were very reluctant
and as a result of this Jack Straw Robin
cook and I think I'm another official in
the government signed Public Interest
immunity certificates because they were
worried about what this would mean this
kind of revelation what is these
documents show that the United States
and Britain and Europe were well aware
of this policy for years and that they
were very worried about this kind of
that the fact that they knew about this
coming to light and just to give you an
idea of what some of these documents say
one of the documents said pretty clearly
that you know an mi6 guy is saying we
mean we believe that the gie has been is
being manipulated by our own secret
services we believe that they are
Germans he will stop at absolutely
nothing and pursue of their domestic
objectives and interestingly a US
intelligence report referred to the 1995
Paris bombings that was blamed on the GI
a and was justified a huge
counter-terrorist offensive with an
Algeria that was backed by the United
States by Britain by France and it said
that we there is no evidence to connect
the Algerian militants to 1995 Paris
bombings on the contrary we have
evidence to believe that at least one of
the bombs was planned planted and the
operation was directed by the Algerian
military so we know and interestingly
one of the documents also says from a
Whitehall document says that if this
information comes out that we are aware
of this we could be subjected to a lot
of heavy questioning from journalists
from NGOs we cannot afford
let this information come out so clearly
there is an element of complicity here
because we are aiding and abetting an
al-qaeda terrorist group by financing
its state sponsor that is unfortunately
what we are doing now it's clear that
there are a number of interests here we
have interest in oil and gas in Algeria
who seemed to be cementing that
relationship and the same passim goes
continues to continues in many other
regions and other prominent example is
the Philippines very relevant in
relation to 9/11 because excuse me Abu
Sayyaf which is the domestic terrorist
group there the major Islamist terrorist
group is heavily connected to al-qaeda
and was also connected to 911 because
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed who is the
operational mastermind of 9/11
apparently it was a was a leading member
of Abu Sayyaf then the main plot on 9/11
was inspired was a hatched in 1995 by
Abu Sayyaf it was a called Project
Bojinka it was a plan he had two
dimensions one dimension was to hide was
to was to take him approximately 11
civilian planes and blow them up over
the Pacific Ocean
the other dimension I believe was a the
hijack planes within the United States
and to fly them against key iconic
structures including the World Trade
Center tower which was named the Sears
Tower in Chicago the Pentagon the CIA
headquarters and many other structures
now is there reason to believe that
there is a similar phenomenon with the
Abu Sayyaf well a very prominent
Philippine politician by the name of
senator senator Pendleton and this is
just to give you one inch of the
evidence that is available he spoke out
in in to the Philippine Senate he gave a
public address and he said I have
evidence I have sources telling me that
the Philippine military intelligence has
been coddling and controlling and
manipulating the Abu Sayyaf in order
again to lid
to my's the concert legitimize the
militarization of domestic policy to to
exacerbate the conflict he cited he
named philippine officials who are
working at that time and said we need to
investigate these people nothing was
done this has been corroborated by
numerous reports conducted by Philippine
journalists they've cited other people
in the Philippine military who confirmed
the same and so on and so forth now what
is our relationship to the Philippine
regime again it's a very very close
relationship here we are working on the
ground with the Philippines and the
United States for example has troops
working side-by-side with Philippine
troops to the point that one u.s. major
made a comment that we are PIAT you know
we have a co director in a co general
for every operation there is great
assistance particular specific for the
counter-terrorist measures with the
Philippine military is undertaking so
again the question remains it has been
going on for years how long has this
been going on for what do we know about
it we are clearly sponsoring indirectly
through the state an al Qaeda group in
order to secure certain interest in this
region again we can go on I want to go
back to North Africa because this is a
favor of mine coming from the UK I want
to talk about Libya and this just gives
you a very disturbing example of how far
this kind of policy can go this was a
scandal in the British press about again
a few years ago a guy by the name of
David Shayler
who worked for about eight years
for mi5 at the counterterrorism desk you
know he came out and he violated the
Official Secrets Act in the UK to reveal
that in 1996 the British government paid
one hundred thousand pounds to an hour
Qaeda cell in Libya why to conduct a
covert operation to assassinate Colonel
Qaddafi now is this a controversial
issue no
it's not subject to dispute anymore the
initial response of the government was
to deny Robin Cook who was at that time
foreign secretary I believe came out and
said this is absolute pure fantasy two
months later the British government
prosecuted David Shayler for violating
for revealing national security secrets
and he did his time they actually went
to prison for that for him for a while
and came out but he's still working now
now so we know that this happened so why
did we do that we connected ourselves
with al-qaeda to pursue this aim and it
brings up a whole host of questions I
mean what was this al Qaeda saw in Libya
the the book called forbidden truth
which written by the French the the
famous book which was a best-seller
written by the French intelligence
experts they cited a number of sources
revealing that one of the members of
this cell was a man called Anas al-libi
that Anas al-libi is on the FBI's list
of most-wanted terrorist he has several
million dollars on his head now this man
has been he was he's been indicted as a
conspirator in the 1998 US embassy
bombings now here we have a US ally the
United Kingdom paying him to conduct a
covert operation what is going on was
there any remark by the United States
government you know as to not you know
this is was there when he complained no
we have nothing on the record about any
kind of protest about this even when it
came to light a few years later were
still the British government was
actually allowing this guy to live in
the United Kingdom according to the
Guardian until the year 2000 he was
living in Manchester living it up in
Manchester absolutely free most wanted
terrorists and nobody did anything about
it so this raises a very important
question
this is simply one isolated example
given the pattern of relationships that
we are establishing here does this
phenomenon happen elsewhere how
there been other examples of us using
al-qaeda apart from and we know for a
fact that we connected with cope with in
terms of opera operationally in the
Balkans we know that we did this in
North Africa in Libya are there any
other cases did this have a connection
to what happened on 9/11 you know and so
this brings us more back this brings us
back to 9/11 I don't want to go into too
much detail about the other examples in
my book I talk about many other issues I
talk about Saudi Arabia and the the kind
of financial network there in relation
to al-qaeda I also talk about Pakistan
and the crucial role of the ISI to this
day in in in financing in military
supporting al Qaeda and the fact that we
are allied with with Pakistan and this
is compromising completely this you know
the stated objectives of the war on
terror but I won't go into that we can
go straight back to 9/11 how does this
impact 9/11 more clearly if we are
connecting ourselves with our Qaeda in
the pursuit of our interests whatever
they are strategic economic or
humanitarian even surely this is going
to fundamentally undermine uh NASA
security because these people are
receiving funds the receiving military
aid and that aid is fluid al Qaeda is an
international network there is a
movement across the globe of people of
ideology of finances of drugs and of
arms and if we are constantly inputting
into this then how can we be fighting
this war on terror it fundamentally
questions challenges the war on terror
as an entire paradigm so
what do we do about this it's a big
question I think that it's important to
call for disclosure we need to have some
kind of disclosure on what is going on
there needs to be a renewed call for an
investigation not just into 911 but into
our entire policy we're in relation to
the Mujahideen and al-qaeda and I think
this pop probably needs to be a new
direction
for us in terms of doing this and one of
the things I talk about in the book is
is the need to widen the picture to
recognize that this policy is that what
happened on 9/11 is a product not just
of specific a specific administration
such as the Bush administration or a
specific group of people or it's not
just solely related to the
neoconservatives
this is something which seems to have
been going on for several years and has
been common to both the Clinton
administration for example and the Bush
administration so this is a cross-party
problem arguably it is a systemic
problem it is something to do with the
way the system operates it clearly is
bipartisan and so in that respect we
need some kind of investigation which is
going to look not just at 9/11 but at
previous terrorist attacks and at a
whole range of foreign policies in
relation to different states which have
connections to al Qaeda so going back
tonight going back to 9/11
why did 9/11 9/11 happen I mean I want
to talk about some of the issues in
relation to the intelligence failure in
relation to in relation to that
yesterday what actually happened online
I'm the air defense failure I mean is it
possible to drop connections between
some of these liaisons that we have and
between those failures well clearly we
can draw a direct connection here to the
intelligence failure there was clearly
very great excuse me a great deal of
reluctance to look at these people
is it possible for example that the 9/11
hijackers had connections to these kind
of leis
that we had in different regions we know
for example there are many reports that
the 9/11 hijackers received some kind of
secure access they security clearance to
train at various newest - military
installations a number of reports to
this effect came out in the aftermath of
9/11 one or two months afterwards from
the Defense Department them and the US
Air Force that people like Mohammed
utter site al ghamdi
and and many others five to six seven of
the hijackers had trained at various US
minused military installations this was
for oft are subsequently disputed by the
same agencies that perhaps these aren't
the same people we have lifts of names
but the official line was that the
biographical data is not necessarily the
same well a journalist by the name of
Daniel hop seeker who used to work with
NBC and PBS he decided to follow this up
so what he did he contacted you know the
press department of the Air Force and
the Department of Defense and he pressed
them you know look you're saying that
there's this biographical discrepancies
here
well let's really push this what about
Mohammed utter do you have was it was
was this guy who you have listed there
the same age as Mohammed utter the
terrorist and the and the official of
the US Air Force was walk' yes it's the
same age so he was like well you know is
it dude what about other features I mean
does it does he have was his name spoke
the same way you're saying that there's
difference in in name spellings yes the
name has was spelt the same okay can I
get in contact with this other Mohammed
utter who was trained with you you said
that he's living somewhere United States
can I contact him just to verify I'm
afraid I can't give you that kind of
information we need disclosure I think
on these issues Senator Bill Nelson was
very worried about this he was very
worried in particular about about the
training that supposedly happened at
Penn Oscoda Air Force Base he pushed on
ask Roth's office to push the very Livan
military agencies to find out about what
was going on
after months and months awaiting he was
finally told by the FBI that they're
trying to get through something
complicated and difficult and they could
neither say yes or no and to date is
worth noting that no one officially has
made a comment to resolve this issue
especially the 9/11 Commission it's just
been virtually ignored the most
important point I can make on that
respect is what hops occur subsequently
did was to push the Department of
Defense to give her to give an official
response and he recorded the statement
that was made that I had do not have the
authority to tell you who trained at
which at which schools which seems to
indicate that certainly somebody did
train somewhere but we don't know who so
again we need to push for disclosure of
these issues because it is clearly a
national security problem you know if we
are allowing these people to train and
secure military installations we have a
problem for our national security so
there are a number of these very direct
issues which kind of indicate that if we
I mean if we if we look at the
implications of this if these people had
some kind of connection to the US
military or to u.s. intelligence does
this explain the failure to obstruct
their movements in the United States or
the failure to pursue them perhaps it
does again I'm not offering a
theoretical explanation I don't know
they needs to be investigated but
clearly there was a problem here now
moving on to the issue of of more
directly of the intelligence failure did
we receive significant warnings of the
event did you receive sufficient warning
to act on on prior to 9/11 I did a lot
of research on this and the conclusion
that I came to was that the depiction of
this by the administration by the 9/11
Commission as an intelligence failure
was simply not justified in my my main
arguments with this was not an
intelligence failure this was a
political failure I try to look using
completely open source
his public sources which I could trace
reliably to US intelligence officials
revealing information I tried to trace
the number of reports that were received
about different issues about methods
about targets and about timing to
organize them in some coherent fashion
and find out what was actually done with
them and consistently it seems to be the
case that these reports were not just
ignored they were taken seriously to
give you one kind of concrete example of
this there was a German intelligence
report in a mainstream German newspaper
Frankfurter Zeitung others German I
think is is how it's pronounced and the
report came a few days after 9/11 and
they cited German intelligence officials
basically saying that well s Alang Alang
which is the international network of
satellites across the globe which
monitors electronic communications
telephone intercepts faxes emails etc
etc it monitors everything that a
chillon picked up information that first
six months and then three months prior
to 9/11 we there was we had intelligence
that Middle Eastern terrorists were
planning to conduct exactly the kind of
terrorist operation that caught on 9/11
to hijack civilian airplanes and target
and held them as missiles against key
symbols of American and Israeli culture
and what I found most significant about
this report was that it's specified that
initials are specified that this
information was taken seriously by the
US intelligence community and
subsequently used to intensify
surveillance so the argument that this
inferno there was perhaps too much noise
and you know therefore we weren't able
to kind of make sense of the information
or take it or take or consider it
credible doesn't stand up it was known
that this kind of attack was
being planned and it was known as -
taken seriously and clearly operations
were done to follow up and to see who
was doing this what can we do to prevent
it another favorite piece of information
that I like to bring out because I think
it really kind of highlights the issue
is a David shippers now this isn't
something new to the book I see discuss
a lot of new information in the book but
I'll bring this out here because I think
it's a very simple piece of information
that demonstrates my point and I
interviewed David shippers after hearing
him David shippers for your information
he was the chief investigative counsel
who impeached him Bill Clinton and try
to impeach Bill Clinton and what
basically emerged from one of the radio
interviews he did which that brought me
on to him was that he he had some
contact with FBI agents prior to 9/11
and these agents were basically saying
that they had information on some kind
of attack and they were being blocked
and they were approaching him as someone
with kind of some kind of standing in
the law enforcement community kind of
republic respect for what he did to do
something about it and use his
connections so I interviewed him on the
telephone and he said to me that he had
several FBI agents some of them from
Chicago some of them from elsewhere who
basically said to him that they knew
that they something was going to happen
in lower Manhattan this was in May 2001
the wording they used was the financial
arteries of lower Manhattan and they
said that they had some specific
information that Mohamed utter for
example was in their son was in their
sights
um they had they had some of these
people under surveillance and their
investigators were being obstructed from
Washington I think one of the phrases
they used with this there was a short
stopping of the flow of information from
Washington DC they were very concerned
so what did he do about this he said to
me that he called John Ashcroft office
to try and get them to because obviously
this was this this is above the FBI to
try and get me apart to do something he
spoke to one of the one of the key
leaders in coming in Congress I can't
number the name
and a couple of other officials but he
never got any response for example when
he tried to get through to John Ashcroft
he only got through to an underling in
the office and the guy said to him well
I'm sorry I'll pass on your message to
Ashcroft but these investigations
generally start from the top which is
kind of a put-down I mean this is this
is David shippers he's not a nobody so
this was very strange and subsequently
Ashcroft never returned the call um but
that just gives you an example that this
kind of information was clearly
available in the community but there was
just not the winning 'less in Washington
to deal with this at some point a
political decision was made by various
people to not deal with this specific
issue of terrorism on US soil related to
certain people carrying out this kind of
project buzzing Kerr attack I don't know
why I won't offer a theory again but
this is something that is clear and one
of the other pieces of information that
I use to kind of highlight the extent of
of the information received as an
electronic intercepts that were made
prior to 9/11 again it's interesting to
know that one of the elements of the
official narrative was that you know
after the 1998 US embassy bombings we
simply didn't have sufficient
surveillance of electronic surveillance
of a sama bin Laden because he you know
he started to use human messengers and
so on and so forth again there was
reason to believe that this just isn't
the case if I can find the relevant
reference it would be helpful but I
can't seem to locate it it doesn't
matter British intelligence produced a
dossier that was quoted by Tony Blair in
this dasya as main as this was like the
white paper that Colin Powell referred
to that never appeared in the United
States but made his way to the UK and in
this kind of white paper what was this
was recited as evidence that bin Laden
was involved in 9/11 and among the
pieces of evidence that he cited was
these electronic intercepts surprisingly
over sama bin Laden himself having
conversation
with various people within Afghanistan
within Pakistan and interestingly one of
the intercepts had a sama bin Laden
warning people to get out of Afghanistan
of the of the particular camps and goes
on to move out of Pakistan and saying
that something is going to happen under
tents on I'm sorry no this happened on
the 10th September he was given this
information and if something's going to
happen very soon so we have to move now
one of the kind of explanations of this
is that has been put forward is that
well this information wasn't translated
in time to kind of to do something about
it now there's reason to believe that
this is not a sufficiently good
explanation one of the reasons I refer
to is a statement that was made by
senator orrin hatch on the day of 9/11
the Utah senator is a conservative
Republican with wide context in the
national security establishment and
interestingly on the day of 9/11 he
revealed a number of news sources CNN
and others that you know the FBI and the
CIA have received information from the
NSA that we've just picked up members of
Osama bin Laden's celebrating the
attacks so we have good reason to
believe that bin Laden was behind it but
the interest in the important point here
is that on the morning of 9/11 we had an
attack within that within the few hours
after that we had people celebrating the
attack in the United States that was
intercepted by the National Security
Agency within a matter of hours this
information was trans was intercepted
translated and then disseminated to the
CIA and the FBI and then furthermore
passed on to a member of the public and
the senator orrin hatch and was then
furthermore passed to the public via the
media so that was very fast so the idea
that there was simply the logistical
ability was not there to do this doesn't
doesn't work this was not a structural
institutional logistical problem there
was this is a political problem the
willingness to deal
this issue again was not there and I
will close the discussion of the
intelligence failure with a reference to
a respected Journal Jane's intelligence
digest is you know a respected British
intelligence journal very well-respected
in in the intelligence community and for
official professionals working in the
intelligence field and their conclusion
several months after 9/11 was that there
was an abundance of information
available to the Bush administration
official information available from
Russia information available from a
number of sources but the Bush
administration did not seem to have the
political will to push the military into
action one of the issues that the
journal highlights is that the Bush
administration reportedly had a number
of opportunities to militarily
neutralize Osama bin Laden in in the
years prior to 9/11 but there was no
willingness to do that and that and and
the digest simply questions that
consistently stir seems to be this this
this lack of interest in following this
up with concrete action um so how much
was known I will close that point with
one quote Newsweek in the weeks after
911 reported twice Pentagon officials
had travel plans canceled on 10th
September for the next day over security
concern this is reported by Newsweek and
newzik said if this is the case this is
going to become a very big issue on
Capitol Hill and it needs to be and it
hasn't become an issue at all why did
Pentagon officials have some kind of
advanced warning or understanding even
if it was late that something was going
to happen
on the day of 9/11 they took
preventative measures to protect
themselves but nothing was done
for the wider public why hasn't hasn't
the Commission addressed this issue why
isn't the government addressed this
issue nobody has addressed this issue so
I will close on that point and leave you
with that it was very clear the
decisions were made at the highest
echelon to not deal with this issue
why those decisions were made needs to
be means to be disclosed in a real
independent investigation and this is
what this this is what we need to call
form this is what my book is about
essentially thank you very much no fees
I was remiss in not introducing myself
when I kicked off this event my name is
Kyle hence and I'm co-founder of 911
citizens watch with my partner John
judge who was here for the town hall
meeting the organizational sponsor for
this town-hall event of Beyond Downing
Street is DC emergency truth convergence
and that's a series of events that been
hosted here in DC these last few days
beginning yesterday in fact with a
National Press Club press conference and
continued the this morning with a rally
at the White House and and furthermore
continue here at American University
tonight this afternoon and tomorrow and
the focus is on seeing how we can come
together as concerned citizens to
connect the dots see the pattern of
deception and work together to bring the
truth to light whether we're talking
about depleted uranium and the dangers
to the troops and the people of Iraq to
Guantanamo Abu Grob to the Downing
Street memo and the the false pretext
for war that got us to into Iraq to 9/11
and now I'd like to introduce dr. Peter
Phillips who will then introduce some
other guests here at the town hall
meeting dr. Peter Phillips is the
director of Project Censored an
internationally known media research
program that annually dident off' i
boast censored stories in the united
states
the annual research book produced by
Project Censored
is entitled censored the news that
didn't make the news
dr. peter phillips we have a group and
on a panel here today and not everyone
is up in front first what we're going to
do is accept questions to not these a
med for about 15 minutes so that he can
expand you can a specific questions so
that's the group we have a group of
activists with a lot of different
opinions about a lot of different issues
around 9/11 and political orientations
and a variety of things for the
questions to mr. a med please no
speeches i think i want to say that
because we this is our second day now of
the 911 emergency truth convergence and
it's been very interesting but there's
been a lot of lot of speech making and
sometimes in opposition to each other we
really want to focus on on his work i'll
introduce the members of our panel who
are here ray mcgovern right to my left
is a former CIA analyst and has a
chapter in the new book coming out neo
conned again and has another chapter
called patriotism democracy and common
sense which is online at the eisenhower
foundation next to him is sonny miller
who's executive director of trap rock
peace center and in in deerfield
massachusetts also joining us today is
peter Dale Scott he's professor emeritus
English department of drug war and you
have u.s. Afghan and Iraq who's right
here and dr. Robert Bowman just joined
us too so each of those former president
candidate and longtime activists each of
these people will we'll start out by
giving when we move to the town hall
session part will give a statement of 5
to 10 minutes and then anyone can
respond anyone can speak to issues of
beyond Downing Street pass three and
we're literally there's 350 meetings a
similar to this around the country right
now as we speak
now we also got news today that barbara
Lee
from Oakland a Democrat from Oakland has
introduced along with 22 other
congressional members a House Republican
House bill 375 which is a resolution on
inquiry on the Downing Street memos
which is a real first step to moving in
the direction of coming to some of these
answers so thank you very much Barbara
Lee I have a question for a med the
transition from the Cold War to a war on
terrorism has served a purpose for
continued military expansion and
privatization of war
Halliburton Carlyle Group Lockheed
Martin Northrop Grumman SAIC of all are
all benefiting from that and very large
ways did the historical link between the
CIA al-qaeda and is I this hook this
historical interconnectedness served to
create the war on terrorism it's pretty
clear that I'm the way that the way that
we our governments have been operating
in relation to al-qaeda has very much
created the foundations of a war because
unless we had involved ourselves to this
degree it's it's the question remains
what what would be the power of al-qaeda
one of the interesting things that has
come to light in the in my research is
that al-qaeda is not the conventional
depiction of al-qaeda as an
international non-state terrorist
network it is not correct it's a multi
state-sponsored terrorist network that
is pretty clear it's sponsored by I mean
we can be frank it's sponsored by Saudi
Arabia elements of Saudi Arabia it's
sponsored by elements of of the
Pakistani ISI
is sponsored by elements of the Algerian
regime elements of the Philippines and
elements of many other governments now
you have to excuse me I keep taking
cough sweets because I've got a bit of a
cold so but um so it seems to me pretty
clear that if this kind of
state-sponsored network did not exist in
this manner or Qaeda would not
have the strength the ability the
logistics that logistical power to
operate in necessarily in the way it
does because there is clearly an influx
of aid there's an influx of military
assistance there's an influx of some
kind of this kind of intelligence
support so it seems to me that this this
probably does make al-qaeda are more
sophisticated in fluid organization
across different state boundaries so in
that respect it's pretty clear that if
we are also involved in this process by
a lying ourselves with these states and
providing them with assistance then we
ultimately are aiding and abetting the
same process I mean in a way to give a
kind of kind of shoddy example it's like
giving a murderer a knife you know that
the murderer is going to go and kill
somebody and yet you still give them the
knife and in that process you almost
become complicit in the crime and so
it's a very serious thing I mean
obviously quantifying the extent to
which we have exacerbated this problem
is difficult and you have to be careful
about that so one can't be sure but I
believe that we have it's it's customary
in this country to talk about Saudi
Arabia as a failing state and
particularly Pakistan is a failing or
failed state because there's been a kind
of fishin at the top the Saudi royal
family has different factions one
faction has allied itself clearly
without with al-qaeda and we can
identify Prince Turkey who was the head
of intelligence until mysteriously one
week before this event he was fired ISI
Musharraf now is identified enemies in
ISI starting with the head of ISI and
Mahmoud Ahmed who he fired one month
after 9/11 and we see in there a problem
at the top of these of these states that
the one part of the state isn't
controlling another my question to you
do you ever think of America as possibly
another example of a failed or failing
State and that certain elements have
been doing things which other parts of
the state do not know about yeah I think
that's a very very interesting analogy
and I think it applies across across the
board I don't think it's unique to the
United States it's very much a
phenomenon in the UK it seems clear that
there is an element of our government
which is which is very used to secrecy
is very used to doing things in secret
and therefore doing things without any
accountability I mean I go on and on I
keep going on about the Libya thing with
Britain because I mean on the one hand
it's a home it's very relevant to me as
a British citizen but it really kind of
makes so clear the what could be going
on behind the scenes of which we the
public are just unaware that our
government could be paying and al-qaeda
cell to do something and we just don't
know about this and it's only because
some poor guy who name goes to jail who
worked in the intelligence services
tells us that we know about this and I'm
clearly worried that the executive
branch in the United States clearly is
mob has been operating unaccountably for
years and there are these connections
there are these ties there are these
there are these kind of this kind of
sponsoring of these states which seem to
be seem to have a very similar dimension
to their policies and this is going on
without any kind of accountability so
the question is how do we deal with this
how do we confront this kind of
overarching secrecy and I think this the
call for disclosure is very important
that the fact that you cannot hide
things on the pretense of national
security when it is itself undermining
national security you know this kind of
policy whatever is behind it you know
there seems to be some degree
deliberation in some quarters a certain
degree of complete kind of absolute
incompetence in other quarters but
clearly the combination of this is
undermining our national security
systematically over over over a decade
or so and if that is the case the
pre-six that we cannot reveal this
information due to national security
collapses in the interests of national
security the national security apparatus
needs to
deconstructed and looked into
uninvestigated you're linking all of
these stories we're familiar with the
the fear that these the lies that have
been perpetrated are about legitimizing
state repression here in the United
States but we haven't noticed I haven't
noticed such an incredible similarity of
pattern so it seems that you're saying
basically that the military's are
beefing themselves up and if you've got
a bigger threat you've got more juice
more money coming in to your system in
your various countries that you've
studied is there clearly particular
corporate interests that are benefiting
in Libya for example or elsewhere well
going well if we're talking about North
Africa will talk about Algeria
I mean Algeria there are so many
American companies for example which are
heavily in if I have heavy investments
in there I mean we have Exxon Mobil a
number of other I think there are six to
seven corporations related to oil and
gas which have investments there and I
have a list here but I can't find
because of the mess that I've made of my
papers but um so this is that it's very
clear that there is a fundamental
corporate dimension here and it's the
same in Libya I mean now that I mean
interestingly after this whole affair
with Colonel Qaddafi possibly being
assassinated he seems to have got scared
and he completely turned around and now
again you know we have the whole kind of
corporate system the oil and the gas
companies moving in Britain as well
moving into Libya and and and and making
friends with Qaddafi who used to be our
arch enemy and and it's the same kind of
process again oh now again now we're
connecting ourselves with somebody who
we we say is a terrorist so this process
just goes on and it's very clear that
access to resources is a fundamental
component objective of the policy that's
a very clear thing and that in doing
that we are allowing ourselves with
people who are undermining our national
security and it seems clear to me
that this policy is so systematic that
policymakers are aware of the
consequences of what is happening not
necessarily all of them but clearly
elements of the policy-making
establishment are aware but yet it
continues hmm thank you
my question is this it seems to me that
the 9/11 truth movement sustains to two
concepts at the same time one of the
concepts of course is that the that
al-qaeda masterminded as you put it this
9/11 event and that we allowed it to
happen
for what I think a lot of us in this
room believe are obvious reasons the
other concept that we sustained is that
we of course directly procured this
event now what I would like for yourself
and maybe some others is this evening
progresses to zero in one because I'm
not sure very much of this has been done
it's to zero in on exactly how these two
concepts coexist I mean it seems that we
all are tend to accept the image of an
Osama bin Laden or an al-qaeda that at
least think they are carrying out an
exercise against the United States at
the same time as there's a power
structure in place well you say no well
I mean it seems to me we certainly
entertain that concept okay
well but I want to zero in on is this
how do how do how does how did the
neoconservatives cooperate through or
some a bin Laden or al-qaeda how does it
happen how does it actually work how
does what makes our sama bin Laden for
example think but no rads no rads gonna
stand down or that there are explosives
you know deployed throughout these
buildings they don't make them come okay
how did you work with it yeah I get a
dick and I understand your question it's
an interesting question
of course it's an important question but
I think my approach is slightly
different I mean to me this is really
almost an academic issue I do have a
personal opinion okay I I have it I do
have a I have a personal opinion which
I'm not going to talk about here I don't
see the relevance of me saying will I
believe this and I believe that what is
important is getting to the facts and
the fact is this we have I mean on the
one just to say that al Qaeda does not
exist is to me a nonsense this doesn't
make any sense
it is a fact that al Qaeda was created
during the Cold War and continues to
exist in some form okay we can dispute
what form is clear to me that the kind
of hierarchical command and control
structure is not there doesn't operate
in that way which may be conventionally
described by our governments clearly it
is more kind of anomalous it's more
amorphous it's a lot more looser and
decentralized and is conventionally
believed there is clearly I mean it
draws its legitimacy from Islam not that
I would say it has any legitimacy in
Islam in doing so is Osama bin Laden
clearly has a spiritual kind of
figurehead status and therefore you can
see it a reasonable kind of story so
there's al Qaeda does seem to exist in
some form and we do consistently Ally
ourselves with al Qaeda in many
different ways in these ways now the
question of the this is an important
question of do I you a conspiracy
theorist who are you a let it happen
theorist or are you a incompetence
theorist or are you a you know I'm not
interested so much in the theory you
know I think the theory is important in
one level and we can discuss that but
the important thing is that we have
certain procedures in place to do things
in a normal way we have laws which
prevent us from doing things in another
way now on 9/11 and before 9/11 did we
fail to protect American lives did we
effectively you know render our existing
system inoperative in some way my
argument is yes we did we fail
the government failed us the British
government failed me recently
I'm Tony Blair has said we don't want to
have an inquiry into this because we
have to find the roots of terrorism well
I'm sorry but if we'd we up with we
don't know why we fail to protect
ourselves what is the point in going on
with this war invading Iraq and killing
a hundred thousand civilians it doesn't
make any sense we start at home you know
we have to start at home this is my
point and I really believe the 9/11
movement has to get its socks up on this
issue you know people complaining that
only no I don't believe you know you
don't believe that there was a no plane
at the Pentagon I'm sorry you're a
traitor or I you know I believe this and
no why are we discussing these issues
you know it's legitimate to hold your
opinion it's legitimate to have these
discussions and these debates and I
think anything is open to discussion but
this is what we agree on you know
whether you're a conspiracy theorist
supposedly or a coincidence theorist we
can unite on this point that clearly the
government failed the government failed
us and we need to understand we need to
have a disclosure we need to have an
investigation on to why they failed and
these people who failed us need to get
out of office because they do not belong
there they do not belong that they
should be impeached in jail whatever
Blaire Bush the whole team they failed
us and they they always need to be held
accountable that is what counts and that
is what we should be calling for just
this past week the Indian Prime Minister
was here in America and America went
against long-standing beliefs to not
allow the sale of nuclear weapons or
nuclear technologies to countries who do
not allow a full and complete inspection
of their programs could we in fact with
the expansion of American War to mean
pre-emptive war to mean we can hit him
if we think they're thinking about
hitting this and you know it's actually
aggression can we now figure that this
policy of allowing nuclear
polar if eration to the Indian
government has a means of a
counterbalance East uh DS man is that
how they're trying to counterbalance the
Hindus against the Islamists your
comments on that policy well this is one
of the one of the things that worries me
is if you look at the wider geopolitics
of the war on terror I mean much of the
most of the active strategy of the war
on terror seemed to have been in place
several years before 9/11 I mean one of
the most obvious documents that suggests
that is the project for the new American
Century which is well known and the kind
of the layout of the plan to go into
Iraq and so on and so forth and this was
of course supported and put it for the
American essentially of course
neoconservative think-tank with ties to
members of the Bush administration so
Dick Cheney Rumsfeld and so on and so
forth so clearly the strategy was there
what worries me is that in terms of the
specific issue of pre-emptive warfare I
mean there are a number of very critical
factors here which seem to be
instrumental in in driving Western
foreign policies among them of course is
the issue of resources there are many
issues in relation to accessing energy
oil gas and there are these issues I
believe are being exacerbated by the
problem of energy depletion I mean there
are a number of studies and numerous
studies I think I believe there is a
virtual consensus in the oil industry
community that oil the world or the the
production of world oil has peaked
either has peat or will peak within the
next few years and how do we know how
the American government we know has
taken this into account I mean the James
Baker Institute for Public Policy was
commissioned by Dick Cheney to do a
study this was before 9/11 I think in
the year 2000 summer of 2000 and in that
report there was a lot of discussion of
the prob the possibility of a becoming
oil crisis due to the problem of world
oil production and and interestingly it
pinpointed Iraq as a key issue in a key
issue to be resolved in relation to this
crisis so it's pretty clear that there
is an energy problem here in the making
on the other hand of course the issue of
energy conflict also raises the problem
of competing world powers and let's not
forget that this is occurring within the
context of a system which is plagued by
growing ecological and environmental
problems we have projections from signed
with them scientific community now that
within within a decade or so we are
going to have very severe problems with
climate change I mean just to summarize
the issue what we're facing multiple
global problems here which are all kind
of coalescing and within this this kind
of crumbling system we have the United
States government the British government
the Russian government the Chinese
government all of us all of these
governments trying to think of
strategies by which to maintain and
secure their interests within this
system and the United States government
has come up with this policy of
pre-emptive warfare clearly in the in
projecting the possibility that there is
going to come a time when these issues
may at some point coalesce into the
possibility of nuclear war I mean we
just have to look at the Middle East and
and the potential for nuclear Armageddon
in the Middle East and the
israel-palestine conflict which is very
worrying we have to look at North Korea
and Iran when Pakistan and these kind of
you know this is a very real problem and
this is why I believe the United States
government has adopted this policy
because there is this there is this very
Republican I think in terms of the wider
9/11 movement these issues need to be
taken into account that 9/11 truth is
not just about 9/11 truth it's not just
about the United States it's about the
entire world and the way in which the
trajectory of our policy and the
trajectory of the international system
today which is fundamentally
compromising human life not just now but
in within within the next few decades so
yeah nephew thank you for your
extraordinary work I'm concerned about
your unwillingness or inability to make
certain conclusions you mentioned about
the CIA like mysteriously the United
States government might be making some
mistake of supporting al-qaeda I don't
know if you're familiar with the
three-hour special the power of
nightmares from BBC which indicates
clearly that the CIA created al-qaeda
and continues to support it that's one
thing so I appreciate your comments on
that but more importantly you indicate
that 9/11 was not an intelligence
failure but a political failure this is
not a political failure abundance of
evidence suggests that this was a crime
that the United States was absolutely
complicit in and and it's it's in - and
you say well what can we do well in Los
Angeles get what we have done in Los
Angeles is we had a citizens grand jury
because none of the investigations
including the Commission which you sort
of act like it's a mystery that they
didn't handle certain information it was
essentially a whitewash Commission and
none of the investigations the Senate
the dossier out of England the 9/11
Commission any of these they were
committed that none of them challenged
the official story of 9/11 none of them
were willing to use as their mandate of
the creation of any accountability or to
establish legal responsibility for
anything that happened on 9/11 this is
profoundly important and it's we the
people that need to reclaim
responsibility which is why this
gathering and we're I'm thrilled that
your book came out the problem here is
that we need to to really state very
clearly that this was not an accident
that happened to us an attack that
happened to us it was a crime that
happened in the United States of America
that we need to be responsible for and
it's obvious when you speak about the 19
hijackers that whole thing is a myth
what we know about the 19 hijackers is
that at least nine of them are still
alive
that none of their names were on the
flight manifest list none of that no
evidence of them of their bodies dying
yes well my question is you seem to in
your first book which was wonderful war
on freedom you tend to suggest that the
United States government was willing or
somehow let 9/11 happen and now you seem
to be backpedaling and rather than
seeing and it was clearly a pretext for
war on the neocon agenda that that was
outlined in the project the new American
Century you seem to kind of be
suggesting man we we have sort of a
strange policy that when in fact what we
know one last thing is on the Pentagon
sure sure at the Pentagon three days
prior
we have satellite photos showing the
trajectory yet the trajectory of
whatever the object is that went into
the Pentagon with tremendous evidence
that this government you know was
complicit I get your question is a
series of questions yeah okay there's
too many questions to do I'll deal with
the main one okay the first which is
basically have I changed my position or
etc etc Hawaii you know basically my
personal position hasn't changed but my
tactical position has my tactical
position had and the tactic simply is
this that why deal with with with
conflicting theories when you can deal
with facts now when I talk about for
example I mean you observed to me this
kind of like you know mysterious I've
said the Commission mysteriously didn't
deal with certain issues well I never
used the term mysteriously I said they
they didn't which is a clear difference
they didn't and I didn't get the
opportunity to describe why clearly the
Commission was a whitewash absolutely
and I really appreciate you coming and
clarifying that it wasn't just a
political failure it was a crime yes
because if you violate statutory
obligation it's a crime you see and the
and in if you if you say it this was if
you failed in this way it's a crime it's
this you know and you can be impeached
for doing that now do what you're
basically saying is that we need to
basically make a position
and the position needs to be either that
the government let it happen or the
government made it happen and what I'm
saying is that I'm constant I'm doing
something actually very different I'm
not dissing I'm not saying what you're
saying is wrong I'm what I'm saying is
is that we have facts and now you don't
have to say I believe the government let
it happen because I found that when I go
if you go around saying that people and
many people automatically turn off and
they won't appreciate what you're saying
and what I'm saying is that for unity on
this issue it's much more important to
focus on what we know and to say for
example that the Pentagon had
information they clearly had information
that something was going to happen on
9/11 they've clearly I mean they had
precise advance warning that is a thesis
of my book they had clear information on
on the method they had clear information
on the targets they had clear
information on the date and of course
the question is why did they fail now
what I'm doing is asking the question
and I'm not giving you an answer because
I don't think there is any value in me
coming out and saying this is the answer
because many people have different
interpretations of what happened and I
think giving an answer like that can
often be divisive
and can what I mean the point is we're
calling for an investigation why do we
need to give an answer before the
investigation occurs you see what I'm
saying so the point is all I'm saying is
we have connected us off with al Qaeda
I'm not saying it happened accidentally
by all means I don't think it happened
accidentally we did not accidentally
start connecting ourselves with the
Mujahideen in Bosnia or the KLA there
was a very clear policy decision made
and it's pretty clear to me that policy
makers are aware of the ramifications of
this that we are connecting ourselves
with these people that this has a direct
impact on our national security now I
could go further you know but I just
don't think tactically it makes sense to
go around saying that to go around
making a position that we need to adopt
this position otherwise you're doing
wrong I think that is very detrimental
for the movement one specifically when
you talk about the hijack
you asked about about the 19 are
legitimate but we know they're still
alive so I'm wondering how come you're
not dealing with those facts as well
well there's yeah I mean it was one
report that I didn't mention I mean that
there was number of reports that the BBC
said that some of these hijackers seems
to be alive and that was just that was
just something I didn't mention my focus
was on what happened prior to 9/11 with
the hijackers in terms of their apparent
military training and so on and so forth
so that was why I didn't discuss that
possibly they think that there are many
other blazes I was asked to introduce
myself I'm John judge I'm the co-founder
of 911 citizens watch and I help Cynthia
McKinney organize a briefing yesterday
and I gonna spare you my question sake
of time we have to quit it was about
strategy of tension it's too long to go
into google it
I just want to support 180 points you
made Martin shots in his book history
will not absolve us says that the
political paralysis in America is due to
the fact that we are allowed to believe
anything but to know nothing and as long
as our history and our current events
are a commodity of the national security
state and a corporate controlled media
we cannot move forward and we will
devolve into exactly these kind of
debates based on speculation instead of
fact this report is worse than the
Warren Report at least the Warren Report
released eight thousand pages and 26
volumes of its hearings and it's
evidence so it could be compared to its
faulty conclusions every single footnote
of this report relates to a document or
an interview that you cannot see that is
locked up into the national archives
until January 2nd 2009 when President
Bush can reverse the decision and keep
it longer and that I think should be one
of the main focuses as to end this
secrecy and release this material
released the film's the forensic data
the black boxes released the interviews
and the records we've done in fo
I a through National Security Archive on
every single document mentioned and
every single one was turned down that is
a democratic fight for your own history
make it nafeez Masada ComEd is executive
director of the Institute for Policy
research and development based in
Brighton England the war on truth is
published by Olive Branch press an
imprint of interim